### Constructor

- special function acts as mold to create new objects

####Defining a constructor
 using a constructor


 Set properties inside a constructor
 set methods in prototype property

### Create objects

Object.assign()  - Copies the values of all enumerable own properties from one or more source objects to a target object.

Object.create() - Creates a new object with the specified prototype object and properties.

Object.fromEntries()   Returns a new object from an iterable of [key, value] pairs. (This is the reverse of Object.entries).

### Update Objects
Object.freeze() - Freezes an object. Other code cannot delete or change its properties.
Object.preventExtensions()   Prevents any extensions of an object.
Object.seal()    Prevents other code from deleting properties of an object.

  #### Update properties of object
  Object.setPrototypeOf()     Sets the object's prototype (its internal [[Prototype]] property).

  Object.defineProperty() - Adds the named property described by a given descriptor to an object.

  Object.defineProperties() -  Adds the named properties described by the given descriptors to an object.

### Read object properties
1. Object.entries()   Returns an array containing all of the [key, value] pairs of a given object's own enumerable string properties.
2. Object.keys()         Returns an array containing the names of all of the given object's own enumerable string properties.
3. Object.values()   Returns an array containing the values that correspond to all of a given object's own enumerable string properties.

Object.getOwnPropertyDescriptor()    Returns a property descriptor for a named property on an object.
Object.getOwnPropertyDescriptors()   Returns an object containing all own property descriptors for an object.
Object.getOwnPropertyNames()   Returns an array containing the names of all of the given object's own enumerable and non-enumerable properties.
Object.getOwnPropertySymbols()    Returns an array of all symbol properties found directly upon a given object.
Object.getPrototypeOf()    Returns the prototype (internal [[Prototype]] property) of the specified object.

### Validate properties
Object.is()    Compares if two values are the same value. Equates all NaN values (which differs from both Abstract Equality Comparison and Strict Equality Comparison)
Object.isExtensible()     Determines if extending of an object is allowed.
Object.isFrozen()     Determines if an object was frozen.
Object.isSealed()     Determines if an object is sealed.


Instance properties
Object.prototype.constructor     Specifies the function that creates an object's prototype.
Object.prototype.__proto__        Points to the object which was used as prototype when the object was instantiated.

Instance methods
Object.prototype.__defineGetter__()     Associates a function with a property that, when accessed, executes that function and returns its return value.
Object.prototype.__defineSetter__()     Associates a function with a property that, when set, executes that function which modifies the property.

Object.prototype.__lookupGetter__()    Returns the function associated with the specified property by the __defineGetter__() method.
Object.prototype.__lookupSetter__()     Returns the function associated with the specified property by the __defineSetter__() method.
Object.prototype.hasOwnProperty()     Returns a boolean indicating whether an object contains the specified property as a direct property of that object and not inherited through the prototype chain.
Object.prototype.isPrototypeOf()      Returns a boolean indicating whether the object this method is called upon is in the prototype chain of the specified object.
Object.prototype.propertyIsEnumerable()    Returns a boolean indicating if the internal ECMAScript [[Enumerable]] attribute is set.
Object.prototype.toLocaleString()      Calls toString().
Object.prototype.toString()    Returns a string representation of the object.
Object.prototype.valueOf()    Returns the primitive value of the specified object.


## 'this' keyword

### What?
- Fundamental thing to understand is : Where a function is invoked?
- Type of binding in JS
  1. Default Binding
  2. Implicit Binding
  3. Explicit Binding
  4. Constructor Call Binding

#### Default Binding
  Rule 1 : If a function housing a this reference is a standalone function, then that function is bound to global object

  `
  function logName() {
  console.log('Name : ' + this.name);
  }

  const name = 'Testing';
  logName();

  //Output
  Name : Testing
  `

  // Since logName is unattached standalone function
 // In 'use strict' mode - this will result in Type Error

#### Implicit Binding
 Binding Rule: A function can use an object as its context, only if that object is bound to it at call site

 `
 function log() {
    console.log(this.age + ' years')
 }

 const obj = {age: 22};

 obj.log();   // 22 years

 const newObj = {age; 22, log:log, nestedObj : { age: 26}}
 obj.nestedObj.log() // 26 years
 `

//Calling a function using dot (.) notation, 'this' is implicitly bound to the object the function is being called from

#### Explicit Binding

- to force a function to use an object as its context without putting a property function reference object

- Utility Methods available to all function [[prototype]]
1. call()
2. apply()

log.call(obj); // 22 years

#### Currying
- Pass around the function multiple times, to new variables, every invocation use same context, because it has been locked to that object
- Hard Binding
   -- a way to lock a context into a function call and truly make that function into a method

const curryFunction = function () {
  log.call(myObj);
}

curryFunction(); // 22 years
setTimeout( curryFunction, 0);  //22 years

curryFunction.call(window)   // 22 years

// hard-bound curry function can no longer have 'this' context overrides

#### Constructor Call Binding

When a function is invoked with new keyword in front of it, known as constructor call

1. A brand new object is created
2. newly constructed object is linked


-------------------------------------------------------------
const obj = {
  name: 'this demo',
  show: function(){ console.log(this); return this.name }

}

obj.show();

Vs

const obj = {
  name: 'this demo',
  show: () => { console.log(this); return this.name }
}

obj.show();

SUNIL VISHWAKARMA 
@linkinsunil 
#JAVASCRIPT 
OBJECT METHODS 
Everything you need to master Objects in JS 
Object.create() Object.entries() 
Object.keys() Object.assign() 
Object.values() Object freeze() 
Object.seal() 
Object.getPrototypeOf() 
Object.setPrototypeOf() 
. cave it, like and chare swipe —
Object.create() 
The Object.create() method is used to create a 
new object and link it to the prototype of an 
existing object. We can create a job object 
instance, and extend it to a more specific object. 
const job = { 
position: 'cashier', 
type: 'hourly', 
isAvailable: true, 
showDetails() { 
const accepting = this.isAvailable ? 'is open' 
closed' 
console. log( 
"The ${this.position} position is ${this.type} and 
${accepting}.’ 
) 
b, 
is 
ks 
// Use Object.create to pass properties 
const barista = Object.create(job) 
barista.position = 'barista’ 
barista.showDetails() 
// Output 
// The barista position is hourly and is open. 
swipe —
Object.keys() 
Object.keys() creates an array containing the keys 
of an object. We can create an object and print 
the array of keys. 
// Initialize an object 
const employees = { 
boss: 'Michael’, 
secretary: 'Pam’, 
sales: 'Jim', 
accountant: ‘'Oscar’ 
| 
// Get the keys of the object 
const keys = Object.keys(employees); 
console.log(keys); 
// Output 
["boss", "secretary", "sales", "accountant"] 
swipe —
Object.values() 
Object.values() creates an array containing the 
values of an object. 
// Initialize an object 
const session = { 
id: 1, 
time: "26-July-2018°, 
device: 'mobile’, 
browser: 'Chrome'’ 
}s 
// Get all values of the object 
const values = Object.values(session); 
console. log(values); 
// Output 
[1, "26-July-2018", "mobile", "Chrome"] 
swipe —
Object.entries() 
Object.entries() creates a nested array of the 
key/value pairs of an object. 
// Initialize an object 
const operatingSystem = { 
name: 'Ubuntu’, 
version: 18.04, 
license: 'Open Source' 
}s 
// Get the object key/value pairs 
const entries = 
Object.entries(operatingSystem); 
console.log(entries); 
// Output 
[ 
["name", "Ubuntu"] 
["version", 18.04] 
["license", "Open Source"] 
swipe —
Object.assign() 
Object.assign() is used to copy values from one object 
to another.We can create two objects, and merge 
them with Object.assign(). 
// Initialize an object 
const name = { 
firstName: 'Philip', 
lastName: 'Fry' 
75 
// Initialize another object 
const details = { 
job: 'Delivery Boy', 
employer: 'Planet Express' 
bs 
// Merge the objects 
const character = Object.assign(name, details); 
console.log(character); 
// Output 
{firstName: "Philip", lastName: "Fry", job: 
"Delivery Boy", employer: "Planet Express"} 
swipe —
Object.freeze() 
Object.freeze() prevents modification to properties 
and values of an object, and prevents properties 
from being added or removed from an object. 
// Initialize an object 
const user = { 
username: 'AzureDiamond’, 
password: 'hunter2'’ 
i 
// Freeze the object 
const newUser = Object.freeze(user); 
newUser.password = '*xkkkkkk', 
newUser.active = true; 
console.log(newUser); 
// Output 
{username: "AzureDiamond", password: "hunter2"} 
swipe —
Object.seal() 
Object.seal() prevents new properties from being added 
to an object, but allows the modification of existing 
properties. This method is similar to Object.freeze(). 
Refresh your console before implementing the code 
below to avoid an error. 
// Initialize an object 
const user = { 
username: 'AzureDiamond’, 
password: 'hunter2' 
}; 
// Seal the object 
const newUser = Object.seal(user); 
newUser.password = '*kkkkxx' s 
newlUser.active = true; 
console.log(newUser); 
// Output 
{username: "AzureDiamond", password: "**xxxxx"} 
swipe —
Object.getPrototypeOf() 
Object.getPrototypeOf() is used to get the internal 
hidden [[Prototype]] of an object, also accessible 
through the __proto__ property. 
In this example, we can create an array, which has 
access to the Array prototype. 
o000 
const employees = ['Ron', 'April', 'Andy', 'Leslie'l]; 
Object.getPrototypeOf(employees); 
// Output 
[constructor: f, concat: f, find: f, findIndex: f, pop: f, ..] 
swipe —
Object.setPrototypeOf() 
The Object.setPrototypeOf() static method sets the 
prototype (i.e., the internal [[Prototype]] property) 
of a specified object to another object or null. 
const obj = {}; 
const parent = { foo: 'bar' }; 
console.log(obj.fo0); 
// Expected output: undefined 
Object.setPrototypeOf(obj, parent); 
console.log(obj.fo0); 
// Expected output: "bar" 
swipe —
SUNIL VISHWAKARMA 
@linkinsunil 
Thats a Wrap! 
If you liked it, visit my profile and checkout for other 
short and easy explanations 
S @) B 
JavaScript Evolution Context API vs Redux-Toolkit P ES6 £52015 ES9 £s2018 
Object.getOwnPropertyDe Feature v ContextAPI v Redux-Toolkit v “Llet and const i 2. Arow functions 2. for abjects Not o full-fledged state management 3. Default parameters 1%&@0 tool. Passes down values and update A full-fledged state management tool 4 Restand spread hisial functions, but does not have but-in with bult-in abilty to store, get, ‘operators Monogement bikty to store, gat, updats, and notify update, and notify changes In vakues. 5. Template fterals ES10 Es2019 
changes in values. 6. Destructuring 1. Amay.prototype-fiat() § assignment 2. Array prototype-fiatMop() Best for passing static or infrequently 7. Classes and inheritance 3. String prototype: updated values ond moderately Best for managing lorge-scale, 8. Promises for 4. Stiing prototype:trimEnd() Usage complex state that does not cause complex state that requires. asynchronous programming 5. Amay.prototype.sort]) (stable) performance issues when passed asynchronous actions and side-effects. 9. Symbols for creating e Y u ssing props. unique object keys 10. Iterators and EST £52020 
Minimal setup and low learming 1.Bigint : 
Complexity used with a lorge number of 3 OPtonol Choig et 
‘components and nested R, 
ES12 £52021 T — React the state passed down s not 1. String prototype replaceAll) Performance and can require the use of 2. Logical assk operators memoization techniques to opti (I 68=,72=) performance. B —— 
Does not come with pre-buit .’/} ES13 £52022 
developer tools but. be used JastindexOf Devmcpa Took ey took e Rt }_%}'{m Tools. . I D o M 3. atf) for strings and anays 
Community __Has alorge ond octive commu Virtua LT Lcher® 
(s P ve Sireineun 
useRef( ) CD Redux Toolkit 
referencing values in React Easiest Explanation Ever 
When you want a component to remember some i 8 information, but you don't want that information 
to trigger new renders, you can use a ref. 
Lets See into eal DOI 
1. How to add a ref to component? 
2. How to update a ref's value? 
3. How refs are different from state? 
4. When to use refs? 
5. Best practices for using refs? 
